# TipSlicer
Cross-platform alternative Slicer for Nanoscribe GT Systems written in Python3

This program provides an alternative to Describe and is capable of creating GWL code starting from an STL-file or a programmatic definition of an object. The basic usage of the program is demonstrated in the separate jupyter notebooks included in the repository. Objects can be created in shell-and-scaffold or solid mode and the different velocities and intensities can be programmed. Also different stitching algorithms are implemented. Remark that this code is intended as a testbed for alternative slicing/stitching techniques and not as a full-on replacement for Describe. Hence, do not expect faster or more stable stl-slicing. However, it is meant as a learning tool, so more debug output and intermediate pictures can be generated while writing (for instance to make a movie of the writing sequence).

One of the core functionalities of the program is that objects can be defined mathematically and sliced directly to a defined precision without going to an intermediate lossy triangulated format. Instead, objects are sliced directly into a volumetric 3D matrix stored in a hdf5 file. This stack can then be processed to different gwl files using different shell and scaffold parameters. A conversion of this stack to a set of images to be used in STL printers (such as AutoDesk Ember) should be straightforward but is not implemented yet.

The main functionality that is missing for the moment is the slanting of blocks to reduce the stitching errors. Also, visualisation of the slicing is not integrated but point cloud files can be written out and inspected in other programs. For previewing the gwl files, Describe is advised. Also note that, as we are only able to write ascii-gwl files, Describe or Nanowrite needs to convert them to binary before writing the structure. Depending on the size of the file, this can take some time. Apart from numpy and scipy, the main dependencies are opencv and pytables. Another optional dependency is an executable version of the travelling salesperson solver Concorde (or any other one). If not available, a nearest neighbour approximation is available.
